ticdc: add description about ticdc new architecture (#20597)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/monitor-ticdc.md

# TiCDC Monitoring Metrics Details

You can get an overview of TiCDC's current status from the TiCDC dashboard, where the key metrics are displayed. This document provides a detailed description of these key metrics.

The metric description in this document is based on the following replication task example, which replicates data to MySQL using the default configuration.

```shell
cdc cli changefeed create --server=http://10.0.10.25:8300 --sink-uri="mysql://root:123456@127.0.0.1:3306/" --changefeed-id="simple-replication-task"
```

## Metrics for TiCDC in the new architecture

> The monitoring dashboard **TiCDC-New-Arch** for [TiCDC New Architecture](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md) is not yet integrated into TiUP. To view the relevant monitoring information on Grafana, you need to manually import the TiCDC monitoring metrics file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The monitoring dashboard **TiCDC-New-Arch** for [TiCDC New Architecture](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md) is not yet integrated into TiUP. To view the related monitoring data on Grafana, you need to manually import the TiCDC monitoring metrics file:
```

- Upstream Write Bytes/s: The write throughput of the upstream database
- TiCDC Input Bytes/s: The amount of data that TiCDC receives from the upstream per second
- Sink Event Row Count/s: The number of rows that TiCDC writes to the downstream per second
- Sink Write Bytes/s: The amount of data that TiCDC writes to the downstream per second
- The Status of Changefeeds: The status of each changefeed
- Table Dispatcher Count: The number of dispatchers corresponding to each changefeed
- Memory Quota: The memory quota and usage of the Event Collector; excessive usage might cause throttling

### Server

The following is an example of the **Server** panel:

![Server](/media/ticdc/ticdc-new-arch-metric-server.png)

The description of each metric in the **Server** panel is as follows:

- Uptime: The time for which TiKV nodes and TiCDC nodes have been running
- Goroutine Count: The number of Goroutines in TiCDC nodes
- Open FD Count: The number of file handles opened by TiCDC nodes
- CPU Usage: The CPU usage of TiCDC nodes
- Memory Usage: The memory usage of TiCDC nodes
- Ownership History: The historical record of Owner nodes in the TiCDC cluster

> - PD Leader History: The historical record of PD Leader nodes in the upstream TiDB cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Goroutine Count: The number of Goroutines on TiCDC nodes
- Open FD Count: The number of file handles opened by TiCDC nodes
- CPU Usage: The CPU usage of TiCDC nodes
- Memory Usage: The memory usage of TiCDC nodes
- Ownership History: The historical records of Owner nodes in the TiCDC cluster
- PD Leader History: The historical records of PD Leader nodes in the upstream TiDB cluster
```

- Compressed Rows/s: The number of rows compressed per second in Event Store (triggered only when row size exceeds the threshold)
- Write Duration: The time consumed by Event Store write operations
- Write Batch Size: The batch size of a single write operation
- Write Batch Event Count: The number of rows included in a single write batch
- Data Size On Disk: The total data size that Event Store occupies on disk
- Data Size In Memory: The total data size that Event Store occupies in memory
- Scan Requests/s: The number of scan requests that Event Store executes per second
- Scan Bytes/s: The amount of data that Event Store scans per second

### Sink

The following is an example of the **Sink** panel:

![Sink](/media/ticdc/ticdc-new-arch-metric-sink.png)

The description of each metric in the **Sink** panel is as follows:

- Output Row Batch Count: The average number of rows per DML batch written by the Sink module
- Output Row Count(per second): The number of DML rows written to downstream per second
- Output DDL Executing Duration: The time consumed by executing DDL events for the changefeed on the current node

> - Sink Error Count / m: The number of error messages reported per minute by the Sink module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Output Row Count (per second): The number of DML rows written to downstream per second
- Output DDL Executing Duration: The time consumed by executing DDL events for the changefeed on the current node
- Sink Error Count / m: The number of errors reported per minute by the Sink module
```
